(upbeat music)
All right, we are gonna do a bit of a fun one.
I feel like we've done a lot of hard work
in mapping and looping and things like that,
and it's time to build something
a little bit more fun than that.
And what we're building here is a face detection
that will detect and blur your face
from a video element into a canvas element.
So we're gonna learn a lot here.
This one is stepping a little bit ahead
because there's a couple of things we need to do.
We need to learn a little bit more about
async/await just yet which is promises.
And we also need to learn about bundling tools
specifically one called Parcel.
And that's fine.
I'm gonna show you how to use them.
And in the future videos where we're gonna
circle back and learn a whole lot about them,
so don't worry about that at all.
So, first thing we need to do is to know that
we are on a browser that supports face detection.
This, at the time we're recording this,
is a proposal for an API,
meaning it's not finished yet and it might change.
Ideally it will get into all of the browsers.
But currently it is only in Chrome and Android.
So if you wanna use this you need to be in a browser
that detects it.
Now instead of me telling you what browser to use,
the way you can tell is if your browser supports it,
you can go into your console of any page,
doesn't have to be this page, and just type face detector.
Or you can type type of face of detector,
and it should tell you that it is is a function.
If you get something like this, undefined,
or you get an error like
cannot read faceDetectorx is not defined,
then that means your browser does not support it.
Now if you are on Chrome, you likely have to
go to the flags page in Chrome and turn it on.
Meaning that often new features in the browser
are not given the masses 'cause they're not ready yet.
So in order for us to play with them and test them out,
we need to go and turn them on.
So the way you turn on flags
is you to to about:flags.
And you will see this is a page where you can just
turn on all kinds of experimental features.
I don't even know what most of this stuff does.
But the ones that you do want to turn on
is take a search for experimental
web platform features and turn that one to enabled.
You'll probably have to restart your browser,
so go ahead and quit it and restart it.
And then when you put it back up again,
you should see type of face detector turn on.
If you still do not see that,
unfortunately maybe your computer does not support it.
But from everyone I've tested, it does work very well.
Okay, so that's the first thing.
Second thing is that we need to use a server
in order to run this.
Because accessing a user's webcam is
kind of a security issue, right?
You don't wanna just give everybody access to your webcam,
you have to ask the user first for access to their webcam.
And you've probably been to a million websites
where they ask for notifications
or to know your location, things like that.
Those are permission-based APIs in the browser.
And accessing someone's webcam is no different than that.
And that sort of preference of is it allowed or not
is often tied to the, or it is tied to the origin.
And an origin in JavaScript is a fancy way of saying
a domain name.
So in our case I'm allowing the camera on local host.
But you might allow the camera on New York Times
or Facebook or all this different websites.
So every time you visit a new origin, a new domain name,
you're going to have to ask the user for access
to their webcam and it will pop up.
So in order for us to do that, we can't just open up.
I'm in 53 face detection.
We have this face.html.
And you can't just open that up straight away
in the browser like we've been doing
for absolutely everything up until now because
this is not an origin.
And if security stuff is tied to an origin,
it won't be able to do it.
You can see a little X with a camera here.
And it says the camera is blocked.
First I thought, okay, I could just click allow and done.
And then usually I have to refresh the page.
But, no, that didn't work.
See, it just goes back every single time.
So I repeat you cannot just open this
HTML file directly in your browser.
It must run through a server.
So how do we run a server?
Well, one server I like also is a bundler.
And we're gonna learn about that when we hit
our module section, and it's called Parcel.
And Parcel will give us this little development server
where when we change something on the page
it will automatically refresh the page for us.
Or if we change any of our CSS,
it'll automatically reload the CSS on the page
without actually having to do
a full page refresh which is pretty cool.
So how do we get that up and running?
Well the first thing we need to do is to open up a terminal.
And I go back to video number two where I talked about
what kinds of terminals are useful.
And then you need to get into this folder
that has face detection censorship in it.
So how can you do that?
I usually type cd.
And I used to be able to drag and drop
the folder name into here.
But that no longer seems to work for me.
So I just have to type the beginner JavaScript.
You can always type PWD if you don't know where you are
and it will tell you where you are on your computer.
And then you have to slowly find your way
into the exercises folder, and then into the 53.
I'm just hitting tab here to complete
the pathname of the directory.
Probably easier than that is if you're using VSCode.
You can just right click the folder and open in terminal.
And what this will do is it will open it up
in the built-in terminal in VS Code.
Yours might not look a little bit different than this.
I have a whole set up here.
Watch the second video if you're curious more about that.
But you will see that you are in here.
Now in the second video I had you install node and NPM.
And you can check if you have that by typing node-v
and npm-v.
And that will tell you which versions you have installed.
If you're not sure what version, 'cause these things change
very, very quickly.
You might be on version 20 by the time you're watching this.
Just go to nodejs.org and you'll be able to see
what the latest LTS, that's long-term support,
that's the most stable version.
And then they also have the current version
which has the latest features in it.
So, you can probably get away with current version here,
more like corporate developers will use this
'cause they know it will be supported for a long time.
So, that's what we've got there.
Make sure you have those.
Then go ahead and type npm install
when you're in that directory.
Npm install.
And what that's going to do is it will go into
our packaged JSON.
Again I'll talk about this more in the future.
But it will take all of our dependencies
and install them for us.
In our case it's just installing Parcel.
Pay no attention to the version here.
This will likely and for sure change.
And I will keep these files up to date
with the latest version, so pay not attention
to if this is different than what you see in there.
While that installs, let's go take a quick look
at this face.html.
Take a little look at what we've got going on here.
We've got our base CSS, that's just that blue background
and things like that.
Then we have our wrapper which has a video element,
a canvas element, and another canvas element,
one for the video and one for our face.
Then I am linking up the pixilated face JavaScript.
Now you are gonna be changing this
based on what you're working on.
So I just have a demo in there
so I can show you how it works.
But you will be working on just pixilatedface.js
which we'll create in a second,
and there will also be a pixilatedface-finished
which is the exact code that we write
in this video together.
Then I just got a little, I don't know,
little style tag just to center it on the page.
Nothing all that interesting there.
Now it looks like this has installed properly.
You might see something like this.
39 high severity warnings.
Woo, Holy smokes.
So that will pop up when you npm install things.
I don't wanna say it's nothing to be concerned about
but what happens is that dependencies
of dependencies that are not even used
in a certain way have security vulnerabilities
and they have to be fixed.
And what happens is that people who create Parcel
will fix that eventually.
But I've talked to the person who runs Parcel
and they say it's actually no,
there's no security warning there.
So if you see that, don't freak out.
Don't toss this whole thing in the garbage right now.
It's weird to say that but it's totally fine.
Hopefully NPM will roll out a better way
to deal with these security warnings right here
where we can mark them as not an issue or will fix.
So, once that has got up and running,
what I need you to do here is we're gonna create
a new file in our folder called pixelated-face.js.
So pixelated.face.js.
And we'll go back.
Let's just console.log.
It works.
And let's go here and change that out.
Triple check you spelled it right.
That's such a common problem.
Seems silly but happens all the time.
And then we can go to our terminal.
So whether you're using the built in one
or I'm gonna be using this one right here.
And I don't have to re-npm install anything
because it's the same path, so don't worry about that.
You should be able to just type npm start.
And what that will do is it will run Parcel
against our face.html file
and it will run a server at some URL,
most likely 1234, but that sometimes just change
if you have multiple things running on different ports.
Now we've got that up and running.
You'll see it works.
Sometimes you're gonna see these like
weird warnings in your thing,
and they're related to like a Chrome extension
that you have installed.
And that's annoying because it gets in the way
of writing our actual code.
And there's not a great way to get rid of them.
But one little thing that I have
is you can type in your filter -DevTools
and that will get rid of any of the dev tools
warnings that pop up.
So if you see that, go ahead and type that in.
That happens from time to time where
a Chrome extension ships like a weird version of it
and you can filter them out there.
All right, so we've got our server up and running.
We've got it works.
Now let's dig into writing some code.
So first thing we wanna do is we wanna select
all the elements that are on the page.
So if we take a look here,
we have our video, we have our canvas,
and then we have another canvas.
So essentially what's gonna happen here
is we're gonna access the user's webcam.
We're gonna dump it into this video element.
And then we're going to take frames of that video
and dump into the, we're gonna put a square around
the person's face on this one.
And we're going to pixelate the person's face on that one.
It could be done on the same canvas,
but I like to keep them as separate canvas
in case I ever wanna just pull one of those images out.
So that's why we have those.
So maybe just go ahead and grab those free classes.
Wait no, paste them all in.
I'm gonna get multiple.
What I did there is I CMD + A and then CMD + Shift + L,
and that gave me a cursor on every single line.
And I'm going to document.query selector.
.webcam.
And we'll say const video is equal to.
And I'll say const canvas.
And const faceCanvas.
So this is the main canvas and this is the one
we're going to be showing our face on.
Then we also need to pull the contacts out of each of these.
So under each one I'm gonna say const ctx is equal
to canvas.getContext and ask for 2d.
So we talked about that when we did the actual sketch,
but that's where you do the drawing.
And then we also need our face context as well.
It's not necessary to put those lines in between,
but it can be a little bit easier
to visualize what's going on.
Then we need to make a new face detector.
So we'll say const face detector
is equal to new, capital F, face detector.
And that changed it to lower case for me.
Make sure you've got capital F on that.
And just go ahead and console.log the video, the canvas,
the face canvas and the face detector.
All right, this looks good.
Looks like I've got all four of my variables here.
I do have this right here, FaceDetector is not defined.
That's because it's looking for a function
called FaceDetector.
And the way we can solve that is say window.,
and that's fine to do.
I told you not to do that in looping,
but it's fine to do here because
this FaceDetector API does not exist in NodeJS land.
Now next thing we need to do is we'll write a function
that will populate the user's video.
And to do that we'll make a function called populateVideo.
And we need to grab the stream from the user's webcam,
so const stream is equal to
we're gonna say navigator.mediaDevices
.getUserMedia.
And then you need to pass getUserMedia some options
saying if you want video or audio.
In our case we just want video.
And you can just say video true,
or you can ask for a specific size from it.
In my case I'm gonna say width 1280
and height 720.
And then let's go ahead and console.log the stream
so I can show you what we're working with here.
I'm gonna get rid of this console.log here.
And now if we run populateVideo, we don't.
Oh, this is a nice little, a lesson learned.
Now that we're running things through a bundler,
we no longer have the ability to access
our functions globally via the console.
If you do ever want to do that,
a little cheat you could do is say window.populateVideo
is equal to populateVideo, and that will surface it for you.
But that's not a great way to do it.
So if that's the case, you just console.log
the populate video and you can see access to it.
And if you ever do wanna access it
from the Chrome DevTools, you can right click,
store as global variable.
And it will say, okay, I stored that as a temp one.
And now I can add this variable called temp one
and I could run it if I want.
Now it's telling me it cannot read property
getUserMedia of undefined.
So, media, I spelled it wrong.
And I'll store that
and call it.
And it returns to us a promise.
You see a couple of things are going on here.
First it might show you this little recording tab here,
it might not, and we'll go over that in just a second.
But this returns us to us something called a promise
meaning that it's not actually the stream of video
coming off the user's webcam.
But it's just something called a promise
that it will get the stream of the webcam eventually.
And we'll go much more into promises in the promise video.
But just know that this is a special kind
of function that returns this thing called a promise.
And in order for us to wait for the stream
to come back from the webcam, 'cause that takes some time,
we need to first mark this function as a sync
by typing the word sync in front of it.
Again, we got a whole video on this coming up.
And then in front of navigator,
the mediaDevices.getUser.Media, we type a wait.
And now if we can,
we can actually just go ahead on page load,
call this populateVideo.
You see that now when I, even when I save it,
you see how it immediately reloads?
I get this media stream showing up in my dev tools.
Now you might not see this yet,
you might see nothing,
and that's probably because this has a little red x on it.
So what you need to do is click on that
and click continue or always allow access.
You can choose your camera via the manage button
or sometimes you can click on this drop down
and then click Done and then reload the page.
And then you should see a media stream
being dumped into your console here.
What is this?
Like, how is that useful?
Well, this media stream can then be put
into our video which we've selected right here.
I'm gonna take these spaces out up here.
So we'll say video.sourceObject
is equal to, normally with a video you just set
the source to be like a dog.mp4.
But in our case since it's a stream we set
the source object to be a stream.
And then we call video.play on that.
And we'll also put an await in front of that
because sometimes playing takes a second or two
and that will wait for it to start playing.
It worked, wow, it worked.
Good, good, good.
So what did we do there?
We made a function called populateVideo.
We grabbed the feed off the user's webcam.
My hands are purple 'cause I made Play-Doh
for my kids last night.
And then we set the object to be the stream,
and we went ahead and played it.
Okay, okay, okay.
Then another thing we need to do is we need
to size the canvases to be the same size as the video.
If I were to console.log video.videoWidth
and video.videoHeight,
you see we get 1280, 720.
Let me see what happens, if I make that to true.
Look at that.
It goes to 640 by 480.
I wonder if I can go full.
I think this is a 1080p.
Yeah, it is a 1080p webcam.
So 1920 by 1080.
Look at how high quality that is.
I gotta bring it back 'cause you don't need to see
that much of me.
All right, there we go.
We've got this up and running, okay.
So we need the size of the canvases.
So what do we do?
We say canvas.width is equal to
video.videoWidth.
And then we change that to be height, videoHeight.
And then we also need to do it for the face canvas as well.
So you might be saying, like, okay, what is that doing?
Well, if we go down here and inspect
this blue area, you'll now see that you have
two canvases that are the same size as the video feed.
And that's the best way to do it
because we don't know how big
the video might be coming off your webcam.
It might 4K.
So it's nice to be able to just dynamically set them
once you've loaded the video in
and started playing it from the user.
And that's exactly why we wait
for the video to start playing is if we didn't have
that await there then it would just be
sometimes you run into this problem
where it's just zeros 'cause it doesn't know
how big it is just yet.
All right, next thing we need to do is to work
with the face detection API.
So we're gonna make another function here.
We're gonna call that detect.
And that will need a async keyword in front of it.
Again we'll talk about what that is and why
in the future video.
And now we wanna go ahead and detect faces
that are in the shot.
So we'll say const faces equals await faceDetector.
Remember we created this FaceDetector right here?
And we'll run .detect.
And then you pass it referenced to three things,
either an image, a video, or a canvas.
In our case we're gonna pass it access to the video, right?
So let's pass it the video.
And then the next time we just console.log the faces.
I really like this.
Once we learn async/await you're gonna be like,
"Oh that makes a lot of sense.
"That's a perfect example, Wes."
Now open up your dev tools and you'll see nothing
'cause we forgot to run it.
So, what we need to do is to run it ourselves once.
And we need to run it after the video
has been populated, right?
'Cause if you run detect when there's no video
it's gonna be like I didn't find any faces.
So the way we can do that is by tagging a .then
onto the end of this and then passing it detect.
This is a promise base, again we'll go into it
I'm gonna stop saying we'll go into it.
You understand.
And look at that.
Detected face.
It found one face.
And inside of it, it will tell you
where the eyes, the mouth and the nose are.
Super cool.
Also the bounding box.
So that is the square around the user's head.
And you see that it just went once, right?
Because it ran once when the video was populated
and then it was never called again.
So what we need to do here is to call it
over and over and over again.
So you might be thinking, okay, set interval.
Set interval, yeah, like just run it every
100 milliseconds or something like that.
And that's how we actually used to do a lot of this stuff
including animations.
But the better way to do stuff as fast as possible
is to use something called request animation frame.
And request animation frame allows the browser
to tell us when we should repaint or redo something
to the browser instead of us trying to do it
every 60 milliseconds because I have a very fast computer.
But some people have very slow computers,
and those will repaint or rerun the stuff on the screen
a lot less frequently than on a very expensive
or very fast computer.
So request animation frame will basically say, hey, browser.
I wanna do some stuff.
Next time you're painting to the page,
let me know when you're painting to the page
'cause I gotta do stuff.
It's kind of like, hey, browser.
If you're going to the store later let me know
'cause I need to pick up a couple of things.
So what we'll say is we'll go inside of this detect
and we'll say ask the browser when the next
animation frame is
and tell it to run detect for us.
And so we'll say request animation frame,
and we'll pass a detect.
Whoa, this is a new talk.
Okay, first of all it's working great.
But second of all I wanna talk about this right here.
So what I just did there is I am essentially running,
like we could do this as well.
We could just run it ourselves at the end, detect, right?
And that will work.
That works pretty well.
Request animation frame is the better way to do it
because of performance reasons.
But what we've just done there
is this concept called recursion.
And recursion is when a function calls itself.
And it will run forever and ever and ever until
something stops, until there's an exit condition,
sort of like our loops, right?
So recursion is when a function calls
itself inside of itself.
It's kind of like the snake eating its own tail.
Detect is being called from within detect,
and that allows us to just be running it infinitely, okay?
So, what's interesting about this is that
it will give us the detected face.
And you see that it's an array with one item.
So, I don't know, let's just console.log faces.length.
And it just tells us 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1.
I've got the queen here.
It got two for a quick second.
What else do I have in here?
Nothing.
It only does me, so it doesn't do dogs unfortunately.
Thanks, bud, go back and sleep.
I don't have anything else.
Oh wait, I've got pictures.
Not sure if this will work but let's try it.
Oh see, giving us all four.
So it is detecting all of the faces that we see.
So we know we're in good shape, okay.
Cool, cool, cool.
So next up we're gonna be doing two things.
First we're gonna just draw a rectangle
around the faces that are found.
And then we're also going to censor the face
by pixelating the area that is around their face.
So we'll make another function here called drawFace.
And that will take in the user's face.
And we need a couple pieces of information.
How wide and high is the user's face?
Because it's much smaller pixels when I'm back here,
but much bigger pixels when I'm up here in high.
And then also what's the X and Y coordinate from the top.
So it's like over 400 pixels down 300 pixels,
and that's where my head starts.
And then we have the width and the height.
This is backwards from what I'm used to.
So how do we do that?
Well, maybe just console.log the face
and see what we're working with here.
I'm not getting anything because I forgot to run it.
So we can do is loop over each of those faces.
So we'll say faces.forEach.
And we'll just say drawFace.
And that will pass it the drawFace callback function
which is this one right here.
And then it will, for each face found it will log the face.
Then we want to go into the bounding box
and we get the X and the Y, the width and the height.
Okay, that's good.
So we'll pull those variables out of there.
We'll say const curly bracket, width, height,
top and left.
I'm using top and left here which is different
from X and Y.
I think X and Y is on the browser,
and top and left is from the video element itself.
So we want top and left.
And we'll de-structure that out of the face.boundingBox.
And let's just go ahead and console.log
all of those variables as well.
Looks good.
One little trick you can do here is instead
of just console.logging the values,
it you wrap them in a curly bracket object,
it will actually show you the property names
along with them which is pretty cool.
The reason that works is because you're essentially making
an object that says width width, height height,
top top, left left.
But because the properties and the names are the same,
you can leave them out.
So that's a little trick, I love using
if I need to know the names of them as well.
Okay, that's looking good.
Now we want to just draw a box to our canvas element
that is on there.
And you'll see that the canvas element is still down here
and we're gonna overlay it on top of the video to do that.
So we're gonna set a couple defaults.
Let's go up to the top here.
We can say ctx.strokeStyle, and lower case S,
is equal to, and I have a specific yellow I like to use.
And we want to set the line width to be something like two.
That's how thick the line will be drawn.
And then we'll go back down here and say ctx.strokeRect.
And this is the API for drawing a rectangle.
You can say the left, top, width and height.
And I don't know, is that enough?
Let's see.
Oh yeah.
This is some computer animation stuff here, okay.
That's looking pretty cool.
A couple of things, first it's not overlaid on top.
So let's fix that first.
We'll go back into our face here.
And let's look at our div.
We have a wrap.
Position relative, wrap each of our column.
So why is this CSS not applying?
It should be, let's take a look.
It's like it's ignoring the style tag.
Let's try to put it in the head here.
There we go.
Well, it looks like Parcel.
I'm using a beta of Parcel right now, it's probably why.
You probably won't have to do that
but that's the fix for it right now.
Okay, so it's working.
All right, it works.
Try to write your name in that.
A couple of things, it's not yellow, why not?
Let's go to our, and debug that.
Maybe this stroke style and the line width
need to be put in here right before we draw on it.
Yeah, that fixes it.
You can of course see, like if you made that 200,
it just blocks your face.
I'm gonna leave it at two.
The other thing is that it's, they're not clearing
after we want.
So we can do that pretty easily by saying
ctx.clearRect.
We'll say 0,0 canvas.width, canvas.height.
And what that will do is it will clear the amount,
the width and the height, based on starting
at the top left hand corner.
Every single time that this runs,
it just clears out the canvas for us.
All right, that seems to be working pretty well.
It's a little bit jumpy right now.
It used to be a lot better.
I think they're still working on it.
It might be a little bit smoother.
Same things with the eyes and nose and the mouth values.
They were very good for a while for me,
and currently they're like really weird.
I bet that will get better.
You're welcome to try and do this.
But also for the eyes and the mouth and the nose.
So that's the sort of the first thing.
Now the second thing we wanna do is to pixelate
the user's face on top of it.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
So we'll make a function here called censor.
And that will take in the face.
In our case we don't care about anything
but the bounding box.
So what I'm gonna do is instead of saying
something like face details is equal to,
if we pass it like this,
face.boundingBox.
Instead of doing that, I'm going to de-structure
the boundingBox property directly.
So we can replace that face with
a curly bracket bounding box.
And now we just have a variable called
straight up boundingBox.
And then I can go a little bit further
and rename it to a variable called face.
And now I should have a face.
And then we'll go back up here.
And we will rerun this.
faces.forEach and we'll call censor.
And you see we're getting that boundingBox
detail just like we were before.
Good, so now the question is like,
how do you censor something, right?
And there's a couple different ways to do it,
and the way that I've found to do it
is to take a snapshot of the user's face,
scale it down very, very small.
And then paint it to the canvas.
And then immediately after that,
pull it off the canvas, stretch it back up
and put it back in.
So essentially what you're doing is you're making it small,
saving it, you lose all the pixel quality.
And they take it out, stretch it back up again
and then that's how you get the pixelation look.
So let's write some comments here.
First what we wanna do is draw the small face.
And then second we want to do is take that face back out
and draw it back at normal size.
Okay, cool.
Now, the way that we do that is we are gonna take
our second canvas element which is our faceCtx.
And we'll say faceCtx.draw image.
And this takes like a billion arguments.
Let's look it up.
MDN, draw image.
So it takes either the image, the X and the Y.
It takes the image, the X and the Y,
and then the D within D height.
We'll talk about that.
Or it takes all of these arguments
in which we are going to be using
and I'll try to break them all down to you.
So let's start here.
Face context that draw image.
First it takes the image that you wanna draw to it,
and we are going to pass it our video.
And then it also wants the X and the Y
of where you should start for it.
So we'll just say 0,0.
You see it doesn't look like much is different,
but if I were to inspect that,
you'll see that it is a canvas element
and not the video element.
If you go ahead and hide that video element,
you'll see I'm still here because
the video is being painted onto the canvas.
Now that's not really what we want to do.
We want to do a little bit more than that.
We want to take the square that is painting on my face
and then throw it on there.
So let me comment that out, make sure
we still have the square painting, good.
Now let's go back here and let's go
through every single argument one by one
'cause there are, what?
Nine arguments to this function.
So there are five source args,
and then there are four I call draw args,
meaning like five pieces of data
about how we pull data out of this video.
And then four arguments about how we painted into
because we really only want this square right here
to be painted on to it.
So first thing is where do I get it.
And we wanna grab that from the video tag.
So where does the soruce come from?
The next two are face.x and face.y
which are going to be where do we start
the source pull from.
Like I'm trying to pull the square out of.
So where do we start?
Right here.
Next we want to know like,
if we start right here, how wide and how high
does it need to go?
That is the face.width and the face.height.
So that is pulling out.
Now the next four args are drawing it into
the face canvas that we have.
And now we wanna ask where should I start drawing it at.
So that's these two ones, face.x and face.y.
Let me go ahead and paste those.
And then change this comment to say
where should we start drawing the x and y?
And then the next args are how wide and how high
should I paint it to?
So you may think like, okay,
use face.width and face.height here.
What's actually happening here is that
it's just painting my face to the square.
And then everything else you see outside
of the square is the video element.
And then everything inside the square is the canvas.
And there's a little bit of a delay there.
So it's trying to follow my face around.
So the way that it's going to work is that
we're going to take like 10 pixels by 10 pixels,
and then peel it back up once we've done it.
So let's replace that with 10 and 10.
And you should see, yeah, right there, little Wes
right in the corner.
If it's you, it's little you.
But we don't wanna, I don't know,
let's not hard code that.
Let's make a variable called size
so that we can quickly reference that whenever we need it.
So I'm gonna go to the top here
and do just const size is equal to 10.
And that will allow us to reference it.
And why did I do it all caps?
It's kind of a common thing in the graphics canvas world.
Any variables that are constant throughout the application.
They do them in all caps.
So now I have little Wes being painted.
The next thing that we need to do here
is draw the small face,
and now we need to draw the small face
back on but scaled up.
So the whole reason we draw it small
is so that we can pull it back out, stretch it back up,
and then paint it over top of it again.
So we're like bam bam, painting small, painting big.
But by making it small will allow us to stretch it up
and get that pixelated look that we're going for.
So we'll just grab that faceCtx again
and we'll draw another image on it.
And next one is where do we wanna grab the source?
Well, from itself.
So faceCanvas.
So let's say source.
Then where do we wanna start it?
Well, we wanna start it right there, X and Y.
So we can grab these.
For how wide and how high does it need to go,
and now it's no longer the width and the height of the face,
it's now the width and the height
of the little one that we did.
And that is going to be our size variable.
See why we put that in its own variable.
And then we have our drawing args here
which is going to be, if we look back here,
where should we start drawing the X and the Y?
So in our case it's going to be face.x, face.y.
And then for how wide and how high should we do it?
So we're gonna say face.width and face.height.
And now it should be painting over the top.
It doesn't look like that's working.
Let's do a little bit of debugging here.
Woo, Okay.
That was about 20 minutes of debugging for me
figuring out one slight thing.
So my question was is like why is it not
painting my face once it's scale up?
And sort of my debugging mindset went through.
I said like it looks like it's not actually
drawing anything right here
because if I comment this out,
it works exactly the same way.
And if I give it a separate source like the video
instead of a canvas to pull from,
then it is working.
And even if I give it my,
you just see it's kind of working here.
It's not really that great because it's just playing
the first 10 pixels of my hand right here.
I just put my phone right there you'll see
it's pulling that up.
So I looked at it forever and ever and ever
and I said, like, why is it not painting to the faceCanvas?
My hint was I went to the faceCanvas
and said display none and nothing changed
which means I was drawing this to the wrong canvas.
But as I was looking, I was like, no,
there's two canvases.
The first canvas is the regular canvas with the context.
And the second canvas is the face canvas
with the face context.
So like what is wrong with my variables?
And it's right here.
So the face canvas I selected properly,
but the face context I used the wrong canvas
to pull the context.
So that was there.
There we go.
Now it is working.
It's taking my...
Taking my face and spreading it all over.
A couple of things we can do to fix some of that stuff
is we'll go into our censor.
One thing I did add here is this face context,
that image smoothing enabled.
You see that if you don't put that,
it's kind of just blurry because
what it tries to do is it says, oh, this is pixelated.
Let me try and smooth it out.
And then you get his kind of weird thing.
But if you turn that off,
then you get the real pixelated values there.
And then we also wanna like clear the canvas
before we do any of this.
So we'll say faceCtx.clearRect.
0,0 faceCanvas.width.
And, right.
Let's clear the whole canvas every time we move over.
There we go.
Now it seems to be working.
One other thing is it doesn't actually
do a great job at getting my whole face.
So what I do is I'm gonna go to the top here in const,
make a scale variable and I scale it up to 1.5.
And then we can go down here to our second draw
and we can make a couple of variables that are scaled up.
So firs thing we're gonna do is make
a width and a height.
So we'll just say const width is equal to
face.width times scale.
And I'll do that for height as well.
Now we'll go down here and replace these two values
with just our variables within height.
So there we go, so that makes a bit
of a bigger scaled up face.
And you can see like if you make that a two,
it is very scaled up, right?
And now we need to back it up and over
based on how much we had.
And for hat we need a little bit of math.
We'll take this face.x and face.y
and we will subtract from each the width
minus the face.height divided by two.
And this will of course be the width.
This will be the height.
Actually it doesn't really matter since it's a square.
But in case for some reason it changed
to not being a square.
Hey, there we go.
This is pretty cool.
We can go up here and change these variables now
if I could make it like a two pixel.
You see I'd be just like very blocked.
Or if I make it 100 pixels, it's actually just,
like it's a 200 pixel by 200 pixel usually.
You see I'm pretty big, I don't know, four for three.
Make that a nine by nine grid of the pixels.
I find that like 10.
It's just enough.
20 starts to give away my identity, being scaled up.
And then the scale like a 1.35 usually looks the best.
See, even 20 is too much.
10.
10 is the most anonymous that I have.
Cool.
Actually what would be really cool,
and feel free to shut this down.
We've done it.
Congratulations, we've done our job here.
But if you're still with me, why don't we try
and create some sliders that will change
these size and scale values here?
So maybe what I'm gonna do here is make an options variable
and make a size property and a scale property.
And let's change those out.
So look for size.
One, two, three, four.
Change that to options.size.
And now scale should be changed to
options.scale.
Broke it.
Oh, that's a syntax error, that's why.
Okay, now that's working.
Now I'm gonna go back to my face here
and make some like controls.
Make ourselves input type of range.
The name is going to be scale.
The min will be 0.3.
The max will be three.
And the step will be 0.1.
And that will do a label for scale.
Put that in there.
And we'll say scale.
Okay, so we got this here.
Let's se the default value as well to line up
with what we did in here.
Scale 1.35.
So I'll say value is equal to 1.35.
We see it starts at kind of where we want it.
Now when somebody changes this range value
we wanna update the variable that is scale.
So let's actually just duplicate this
and do it for the size as well.
Size.
So the size will start at 10.
And it will go from 1 all the way up to 100.
And the step will go up by one.
Okay, so now we need some event listeners on these suckers.
So we need to select those inputs.
So over here, we say const range inputs.
Or maybe we'll call it options inputs
is equal to document.querySelector.
I'm gonna select everything in the controls,
that is input with the type of range.
We'll console.log the options inputs
to see what we're working with here.
We've got null.
Query selector all.
That's probably not our problem though.
We got our empty node list.
Controls, input, there we go.
There we go, now we got our node list
with our two inputs on it.
Then what we'll do is we'll make
an event listener for each of those.
So we'll say options inputs.
Let's keep this altogether.
optionsInput.forEach
input, we'll say input.addEventListener.
The input event is what we'll fire when it is changed.
And we will then have a handle range input.
Or maybe handleOption we'll call it.
Then we'll make a function, let's do it above it.
So handleOption, it gives our event.
And let's just console.log event.currentTarget.value.
Change that to correct spelling.
There we go.
So now every time we change either one of these values,
they are updating or they're console.logging.
And now what we need to do is,
so now what we need to do is pull out the value
and the name of the input.
And see it says size, size, size, scale, scale, scale.
So using the value and the name,
let's bring those into just proper variables.
So const, we'll de-structure them.
Value and name is equal to event.currentTarget.
And then we'll say options, square bracket,
name is equal to value, I think.
We might need to change these to numbers
'cause inputs always come in as strings.
So we want a parseFloat.
Hey.
There we go, and you can scale it up.
You see the beauty of keeping these variables as options?
That way you can just change it.
And then whenever you change the value
of whatever is going on here, it will just update itself.
Oh, I like that.
Cool, so, I know that was a long one.
I think that's super fun.
Hopefully you can, like, that's just the beginning.
Hopefully you've got some ideas of things
you like to add to this sort of thing,
maybe look into how you can make these images downloadable.
In my JavaScript 30 course we do a photo booth
that's similar to that, so check it out
and I'll catch you in the next one.